### 3.6.0
- Collosus can now store multiple keys in it's keyring.
- The `--accountUri` and `--password` args can be used multiple times to add multiple keys. This adds support for worker to use different transactor accounts per bucket if necessary.
- Added `--keyStore` argument for all commands to configure a directory containing multiple key files to
- Server can run and to serve specific buckets, by passing a comma separated list of bucket ids with the `--buckets` argument.
- Renamed `--operatorId` operator command argument to `--workerId` for consistency.

### 3.5.0

- Integrates OpenTelemetry API/SDK with Colossus for exporting improved tracing logs & metrics to Elasticsearch. Adds `./start-elasticsearch-stack.sh` script to bootstrap elasticsearch services (Elasticsearch + Kibana + APM Server) with all the required configurations.

### 3.4.0

- Added option 'none' to 'logFileChangeFrequency' argument. The default is still 'daily'. 'none' prevents log rotaion on time basis and only rotates when max size for logs files is reached.

### 3.3.0

- Added customization options for Elasticsearch logging. Users can now specify index name and auth options.
- **FIX** [#4773](https://github.com/Joystream/joystream/issues/4773) Cleanup temporary files created when upload fails.

### 3.2.0

- Updated `joystream/types` and `@joystream/metadata-protobuf` dependencies.
- Dropped `sudo` based dev commands

### 3.1.1

- `@joystream/types` dependency version bump for consistency with mainnet release versioning

### 3.1.0

- Adds connected query-node's state information to the `/status` endpoint.
- Refactors `QueryNodeApi` initialization (single instance instead of multiple ones) to have persistent apollo client caching, since previously a new client was being initialized for each request leading to entirely new cache object every time.

### 3.0.1

- **FIX** `getAllAssignedDataObjects`: The query to get all assigned objects during sync has been refactored into smaller queries. Each query will now provide no more than 1000 storage bag ids in the input to avoid hitting the request size limit (see: https://github.com/Joystream/joystream/issues/4615).
- Improved error logging for Apollo GraphQL request errors.

### 3.0.0

- **Carthage/Mainnet release:** Breaking change for files upload endpoint, the parameters except the file itself i.e., `dataObjectId`, `storageBucketId` and `bagId` are removed from the request body and are now part of the query string. This allows the pre-validation of the request params to validate the request before the complete file is uploaded successfully,
- API request/response types are now autogenerated from the openapi schema,
- Autogenerated API client library (`@joystream/storage-node-client`) is now part of the storage node codebase.
